Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Programing language is a set of command or syntax used to creat a software program.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.

What is IDE?
A. IDE is an Integrated Development Environment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.Eclipse,Intellij, BlueJ, NetBeans,JCreator.


Explain the entire java life cycle.
...

what is class?
A class is a blueprint for creating object.

What is object?
...
What is the entry point of an application?
It is an access point to an application.

Why main is static?
Main is always static because compiler can call without the creation of a new object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
PATH. The path environment variable is used to specify the set of directories which contains executional programs.
CLASSPATH. The class path environment variable is used to specify the location of the classes and packages.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
INTERFACE..Interface can have only abstract methods.
ABSTRACT..Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No. we can implement Interface and Abstract class.

what is Access Specifier?
Access Specifier regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object Oriented Programming.
1.Abstraction.
2.Encapsulation.
3.Inheritance.
4.Polymorphism.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Java package is a namespace that organize a set of classes. Java.lang

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
API stands for application programming interface.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Yes. so it do have the ability of a class to implement more than one interface.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument lists are different.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program that disrupts the normal flow of the program's instructions.
we can handle with try,catch and finally block.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
static is a non-access modifier in Java.
Static methods can be public or private.
The static keyword is placed right after the public/private modifier and right before the type of variables and methods in their declarations.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
The final keyword in java is used to restrict the user.
public final class ....{....}

What is final, finally and finalize?
1.final is a keyword.
2.finally is a block.
3.finalize is a methods.

What is a constructor ?
Constructor is a special method that is used to initialize objects.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
.....

What is "this" keyword in java ?
It refer to current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.
1.variable.
2.methods.
3.constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
Yes.

What version of java are you using?
15.

What is JAR stand for ?
Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
1.JDK is a software development kit to develop applications in Java.
2.JVM executes Java byte code and provides an environment for executing it.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
1.JVM executes Java byte code and provides an environment for executing it.
2.It is a software bundle which provides Java class libraries with necessary components to run Java code.

What is compile time and run time?
1.Compile time is when the program is compiled
2.Runtime is when it executes

What is heap?
The heap is an area of dynamically-allocated memory that is managed automatically by the operating system or the memory manager library.

How java manage it's memory?
Java manage it memory with heap and stack.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
1.String represent character.
2.StringBuffer operation are thread-safe and synchronized.
3.StringBuilder perform faster than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
It can have only one object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
1.Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
2.Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
To avoid serialization.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
1.In while loop condition is evaluated first.
2.In do.while loop statement in do while get executed first.

What is Enum?
Enum is a spacial class in that represent a group of constants.

What is Iterator?
Iterator is used to iterate elements one-by-one from a List implemented object.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Integer.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in the String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
call one constructor from another constructor.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
1.Serial garbage collector is default.
2.Parallel garbage collector is Multiple.

What is JIT stands for?
Just-In-Time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
1.The Java heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.
2.Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
1.Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application.
2.stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
...
what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
To handle two or more threads at a same time.

What is Framework?
It is a body of pre-write code.


What are the testing Framework available in java?
1.jUnit
2.TestNG
3.JBehave
4.Serenity

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
1.JUnit does not support running parallel test simultaneously.
2.It processes Unit tests with passing parameters into the test methods.

What are the dependencies for this project?
........
what is dependency injection in java?
Dependency injection is a concept in which objects get other required objects from outside

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
1.When type of the object is determined at compiled time is called Static binding.
2.When compiler is not able to resolve the binding at compile time is known as Dynamic or late Binding.









