Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. we need data structure to store, organize data and we use algorithms to manipulate those data structure.


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
1.Array
2.Stack
3.Queue
4.Linklist
5.tree
6.tree

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
1.Compiler Design
2.Operating System
3.Database Management System
4.Graphics
5.AI
6.Numerical Analysis

what is an Array?
An array is a data structure, which can store a fixed-size collection of elements of the same data type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
1.An array is a basic functionality of java.
2.ArrayList is a part of collection framework in java.

what is LinkedList?
Linklist is a part of collection framework in java.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
1. An array is a collection of a fixed number of data items.
2.Linklist is an ordered set comprising a variable number of data items.

what is queue?
Queue is an abstract data structure.

what is stack?
Stacks are dynamic data structures that follow the L.I.F.O.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
1.First In First Out.
2.Last In First Out.

what is the order of complexity?
Order of Complexity is to check each element one-by-one.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Binary search.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
....
what is tree in data structure?
Non-liner data structure.

what is graph in data structure?
A graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
1.Hashtable is a data structure that is used to store keys value pairs.
2.HashMap is a Map-based collection class in Java which is used to store data in Key and Value pairs.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
1.RDBMS:Array.
2.Network data model:Graph.
3.Hierarchical data model:Tree.

How HashMap works in java?
....
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException indicate that an array has been accessed with an illegal index. The index is either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
1.Create a new array of the same length and copy each element.
2.Use the clone method of the array.


What is difference between an array and a linked list?
1.Array is a consistent set of a fixed number of data items .
  Specified during declaration.

2.Linklist is a variable number of data items.
  Linklist dose not required to specified.

What is DFS and BFS?
1.DFS:Depth First Search.
2.BFS:Breadth First Search.

What is Recursion?
It  is the technique of making a function call itself.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
1.Linear data structure where data elements are arranged sequentially
2.Non linear data structures where data elements are not arranged sequentially

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Big-(O)-notation is used to classify algorithms according to how their run time

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
1.Liner O(1)
2.Binary O(1)
3.Bubble O(n)
4.Selection O(n^2)
5.Insertion O(n)
6.Merge O(nlogn)
7.Quick O(nlogn)
8.Heap O(nlogn)
9.Bucket O(n+k)
10.Radix O(nk)
11.Tim O(n)
12.Shell O(n)



Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


